README.md, before:

# in silico fate mapping

[![License BSD-3](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/in-silico-fate-mapping.svg?color=green)](https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/raw/main/LICENSE)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/in-silico-fate-mapping.svg?color=green)](https://pypi.org/project/in-silico-fate-mapping)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/in-silico-fate-mapping.svg?color=green)](https://python.org)
[![tests](https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/workflows/tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping)
[![napari hub](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://api.napari-hub.org/shields/in-silico-fate-mapping)](https://napari-hub.org/plugins/in-silico-fate-mapping)


Interactive in silico fate mapping from tracking data.

This napari plugin allows the estimation o cell fates from incomplete tracking data by building a radial regression model per time point. The user can interrogate different starting (ending) positions using a `Points` layer; the application will advent the probed coordinates forward (backward) in time, showing the estimated fate.

Video example below:

<video src='
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21022743/216478216-89c1c35f-2ce4-44e8-adb8-9aeea75b5833.mp4' width=720></video>

TODO: add to pypi

## Installation

You can install `in-silico-fate-mapping` via [pip]:

    pip install in-silico-fate-mapping


To install latest development version :

    pip install git+https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping.git

## Citing

If used please cite:

```
TBD
```

## Issues

If you encounter any problems, please [file an issue] along with a detailed description.

[napari]: https://github.com/napari/napari
[Cookiecutter]: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
[@napari]: https://github.com/napari
[MIT]: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[BSD-3]: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause
[GNU GPL v3.0]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt
[GNU LGPL v3.0]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.txt
[Apache Software License 2.0]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[Mozilla Public License 2.0]: https://www.mozilla.org/media/MPL/2.0/index.txt
[cookiecutter-napari-plugin]: https://github.com/napari/cookiecutter-napari-plugin

[file an issue]: https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/issues

[napari]: https://github.com/napari/napari
[tox]: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
[pip]: https://pypi.org/project/pip/
[PyPI]: https://pypi.org/

Commit message:

improved description and added file format section

README.md, after:

# in silico fate mapping

[![License BSD-3](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/in-silico-fate-mapping.svg?color=green)](https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/raw/main/LICENSE)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/in-silico-fate-mapping.svg?color=green)](https://pypi.org/project/in-silico-fate-mapping)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/in-silico-fate-mapping.svg?color=green)](https://python.org)
[![tests](https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/workflows/tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping)
[![napari hub](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://api.napari-hub.org/shields/in-silico-fate-mapping)](https://napari-hub.org/plugins/in-silico-fate-mapping)


Interactive in silico fate mapping from tracking data.

This napari plugin estimates the cell fates from tracking data by building a radial regression model per time point. The user can select an area of interest using a `Points` layer; the algorithm will advent the probed coordinates forward (or backward) in time, showing the estimated fate.

Video example below:

<video src='
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21022743/216478216-89c1c35f-2ce4-44e8-adb8-9aeea75b5833.mp4' width=720></video>

## Installation

TODO: add to pypi

You can install `in-silico-fate-mapping` via [pip]:

    pip install in-silico-fate-mapping


To install the latest development version :

    pip install git+https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping.git


## IO file format

This does not depend on the file format, the only requirement is using a `Track` layer from napari.

Despite this, we ship a reader and writer interface. It supports `.csv` files with the following reader `TrackID, t, (z), y, x`, `z` is optional.
Such that each tracklet has a unique `TrackID` and it's composed of a sequence o time and spatial coordinates.

This is extremely similar to how napari store tracks, more information can be found [here](https://napari.org/stable/howtos/layers/tracks.html).

Divisions are not supported at the moment.

## Citing

If used please cite:

```
TBD
```

## Issues

If you encounter any problems, please [file an issue] along with a detailed description.

[napari]: https://github.com/napari/napari
[Cookiecutter]: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
[@napari]: https://github.com/napari
[MIT]: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[BSD-3]: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause
[GNU GPL v3.0]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt
[GNU LGPL v3.0]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.txt
[Apache Software License 2.0]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[Mozilla Public License 2.0]: https://www.mozilla.org/media/MPL/2.0/index.txt
[cookiecutter-napari-plugin]: https://github.com/napari/cookiecutter-napari-plugin

[file an issue]: https://github.com/royerlab/in-silico-fate-mapping/issues

[napari]: https://github.com/napari/napari
[tox]: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
[pip]: https://pypi.org/project/pip/
[PyPI]: https://pypi.org/
